                                                                              CM3070 ZA

BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE


Final Project


Release date: Monday 16 March 2026 at 15:00 UK Time

Close date: Monday 16 March 2026 by 19:00 UK Time

Time allowed: 4 hours

INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

There are FOUR questions in the examination paper.

Question 1 is COMPULSORY. If you do not answer Question 1, you will get a mark
of zero for the entire examination.

You should answer ALL THREE questions from Question 2 to Question 4. Each
question carries 20 marks.

The marks for each part of a question are indicated at the end of the part in [.]
brackets.

There are 60 marks available on this paper.

Calculators are NOT permitted in this examination.
                                            This is not allowed from 2026
You may use ONE A4 page of previously prepared notes in this examination. Please
hold up your notes to the camera at the start of the examination.

File upload is NOT permitted in this examination.




© University of London 2026



                                       Page 1 of 5
Question 1

This question is COMPULSORY, though it carries no marks. If you do not answer this
question, you will get a mark of zero for your entire exam.

(a) What was the title of your project?

(b) Which template was your project based on?

(c) Briefly describe what your project was about.




                                          Page 2 of 5
Question 2

(a) Choosing the template you worked from for your project was an important starting
    point for progress. What approach to selecting your template did you take, and do
    you feel you ended up choosing appropriately? Justify your claim (that you chose
    appropriately, or that you didn’t) and discuss whether you would do things
    differently in a similar scenario in future.
                                                                               [4 marks]

(b) Explain ONE advantage of strong constraints in a project template, and ONE
    advantage of high flexibility in a project template. Where did your choice of
    template fit in this spectrum, and how did you navigate any absence of advantages
    inherent in your template in regard to this?
                                                                                [4 marks]

(c) You had to make a video to showcase your project working, as well as give some
    context, some explanation of key aspects, and some analysis. Considering the
    video you submitted for your final report, how did you decide what to include in the
    video, and what to leave out? Comment on the timing, format, and content
    restrictions you had to respect as part of the submission. What did you learn from
    having to respect these?
                                                                               [4 marks]

(d) Final year projects should be more than just coding up a good idea. What made
    your project a Computer Science final year degree one, rather than one that was
    the coding implementation of a good idea? Is there overlap in these two aspects?
    Discuss these differences in general terms as well as with specific reference to
    your own project.
                                                                               [3 marks]

(e) Note ONE significant outcome that you achieved in your project, in terms of the
    work done, and explain why it is significant. Note that this should not be about
    personal improvement (for example, we are not looking for answers like ‘I learned
    how to stick to deadlines’), but should be about the content of the project itself.
    Based on this significant outcome that you’ve identified, if somebody else wanted
    to build on the achievements in your project, suggest further work that another
    student might do in order to continue or further advance the outcome in some way.
    Be as explicit as possible.
                                                                                 [5 marks]




                                      Page 3 of 5
Question 3

(a) Describe inclusive design in software development, with particular reference to the
    idea of born-accessible design, described in a publication by J Lazar, that was part
    of your reading.
                                                                                [2 marks]

(b) In terms of inclusive design, explain the similarities and differences between the
    radical inclusion approach and the born-accessible approach to inclusive software
    design.
                                                                                [4 marks]

(c) Did your project consider and include either (or both) of these paradigms during
    design and development? If so, describe this and comment on its success or
    failure in this context. If you did not include this, explain why not, and comment on
    whether this was appropriate or not.
                                                                                  [4 marks]

(d) Imagine you are to design a mental health check‑in app. For this app, outline ONE
    design decision that embodies inclusive design. Justify this choice (i.e. defend the
    claim that this design decision embodies inclusive design), and explain briefly how
    you would include this aspect of the design into your development.
                                                                                 [2 marks]

(e) For the same app as mentioned in (d) above, outline ONE design decision that
    embodies radical inclusion. Again, justify the choice as being one that does
    embody radical inclusion, and explain how you would include this into your
    development.
                                                                               [2 marks]

(f) Evaluate trade‑offs between inclusivity and other competing priorities (e.g., delivery
    speed), and relate them to this app, again justifying your choices, and making
    reference to external benchmarks where appropriate. Include a brief discussion of
    whether these trade-offs were relevant to your own project.
                                                                                [4 marks]

(g) Describe ONE accessibility consideration for mobile form inputs, and a distinct
    accessibility consideration for mobile text content.
                                                                              [2 marks]




                                       Page 4 of 5
Question 4

(a) Discuss the difference between testing and evaluation in the context of software
    design and development. Relate this to your particular project and include insight
    and commentary as to the success you achieved in both of these aspects (testing
    and evaluation).
                                                                              [6 marks]

(b) Briefly describe the outcomes of your evaluation. Include what approach you took
    to evaluation, and then critically assess what the outcomes were, commenting on
    any aspects you would do differently if you were to repeat the evaluation in the
    future.
                                                                               [4 marks]

(c) Consider the following case study:

   Imagine that your project is a productivity app based on the Pomodoro technique. The app aims to
   make users more efficient at studying and reduce distraction.
   Also imagine that full instructions on how to use the app you have developed are given here.

   Your evaluation consists of the following tasks and questions for the users in your evaluation group:

       i. Please use the app for at least two Pomodoros while studying your coursework and answer
          the following questions:
          • Is the app easy to use?
          • Did you enjoy using the app?
          • Would you use the app again?


       ii. Please follow the link provided to the mathematical quiz and use the app for two
           Pomodoros of 15 minutes while answering the quiz.
           •   How many questions did you answer?
           •   How many questions did you answer correctly?
           •   Were you frequently distracted from the task?
   Critically discuss the tasks presented, and the questions asked, in the context of
   the evaluation approach that is being taken. Include suggestions for additional or
   different approaches to the evaluation.
                                                                             [10 marks]



                                         END OF PAPER




                                            Page 5 of 5
