                                                                       CM3070

BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE

Final Project


Release date: Monday 4 March 2024 at 12:00 midday Greenwich Mean Time
Close date: Tuesday 5 March 2024 by 12:00 midday Greenwich Mean Time
Time allowed: 4 hours to submit



INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:
There are fve questions in this examination paper. You should answer no
more than THREE questions. Each question carries 20 marks. The marks for
each part of a question are indicated at the end of the part in [.] brackets.
There are 60 marks available on this paper.
A handheld non-programmable calculator may be used when answering
questions on this paper but it must not be able to display graphics, text or
algebraic equations. Please hold your calculator to the camera at the start of
the examination to clearly show the make and type.
You may use ONE A4 page of previously prepared notes in this examination.
Please hold up your notes to the camera at the start of the examination.
File upload is NOT permitted in this examination.




© University of London 2024




                                 Page 1 of 6
Question 1      Project report

 (a) What is the purpose of the literature review (or literature survey) in the
     project report?                                                            [4 marks]

 (b) This question relates to the background reading you did as part of the
     project. You would have read a range of material, some of which would
     contribute to your literature review and some which did not. Explain in
     general why some material makes it into the review/survey, and some
     does not.
     Of the material that you read while doing your project, give examples of
     material that you included in your own literature review and material you
     omitted, and explain in both cases why you made those choices.
                                                                              [10 marks]

 (c) In general, what kind of material is suited to being in an appendix?
     Substantiate your answer with concrete examples.
                                                                               [2 marks]

 (d) If you included appendices, describe briefy what they contained and
     justify why you chose to use them; if you did not, explain why you did not.
                                                                               [4 marks]




                                  Page 2 of 6
Question 2     Project design
    The project you did was based on a template, that you chose from a
    selection of template options. Many of the template options required the
    design and development of working code, and some required design of
    aspects related to the user experience.

     i. Which template did you choose, and why?
                                                                            [4 marks]
     ii. Summarise the technical challenge in your project.
                                                                            [4 marks]
    iii. Summarise in a few sentences the main solution you came up with to
         address the technical challenge.
                                                                        [3 marks]
    iv. Provide a detailed description—including a diagram as overview—of
        your technical solution, that would allow a fellow student, or other
        technically competent person, to be able to implement the solution
        that you came up with.
                                                                             [9 marks]




                                Page 3 of 6
Question 3     Evaluation

 (a) Refect on how you carried out evaluation in your project.

      • Describe the method(s) you used to evaluate the work you had done,
        and discuss whether these were ultimately the best choices, and if
        not, what other approach(es) you could have utilised.
                                                                           [6 marks]
      • Describe the results of your evaluation.
                                                                           [5 marks]
      • Explain how you presented your evaluation results. Justify your
        choice of presentation approach.
                                                                            [4 marks]

 (b) Refect on how you managed your project materials: how did you go
     about maintaining your project outputs such as source code, user
     interface designs, and so on? Did you use a versioning system? Did you
     do backups? Would you do things differently if you were to do this project
     again?
                                                                           [5 marks]




                                Page 4 of 6
Question 4     Self-refection
    Consider what you ended up developing for your project.

     i. Describe briefy what you achieved.
                                                                              [4 marks]
     ii. Identify ONE part of your work that you consider to be your best
         achievement in the project. Justify why you feel this.
                                                                              [8 marks]
    iii. Identify ONE part of your work that is the least high-quality part of the
         project. Again, justify why you have chosen this aspect or part,
         discuss possible reasons for the weakness, and propose what could
         have been done to achieve better quality. (NOTE that this is not a
         focus on failure, but a focus on how to achieve high quality outcomes.)
                                                                                [8 marks]




                                 Page 5 of 6
Question 5     Further work
    Imagine that your project is going to be taken on by another student next
    year, to extend or improve what you have achieved.

     i. Would you advise a rewrite of your code or any parts of your design,
        and if so, what would you advise should be done differently? If you
        believe that your code is usable as it stands, you should justify this.
                                                                              [4 marks]
     ii. Identify TWO things that someone taking forward this project might
         include in their project work, with justifcation of why you feel these
         are important aspects for further work. Depending on your specifc
         project and what you achieved, these may be areas where you found
         potential new and exciting things you might want to do. For example,
         adding of interesting features; evaluating other ML approaches;
         applying your work to a different data corpus; etc. They should not
         simply be things you had planned from the start but simply did not
         have time to do.
                                                                                [8 marks]
    iii. For each of these, how would you suggest the student approach the
         work, and what advice would you give them as to how to carry it out?
                                                                          [8 marks]



                               END OF PAPER

.




                                 Page 6 of 6
