                                                                              CM3070
BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE


Final Project


This is a mock exam.

This mock exam provides you with examples of the level and style of questions you
will encounter in the real exam.

Please note that aspects that are about the context and actual writing of the exam are
subject to change. These could include: date/time; number of questions and choice
available; permitted materials; exam platform details; use of calculators; marks
awarded; etc.

Full details of the above for your real exams will be communicated in your admission
notice, sent out closer to the time of your exams.




© University of London 2025


                                     Page 1 of 5
Question 1 Your project

This question is COMPULSORY, though it carries no marks. If you do not answer this
question, you will get a mark of zero for your entire exam.

(a) What was the title of your project?

(b) Which template was your project based on?

(c) Briefly describe what your project was about.

                                                                          [0 marks]




                                          Page 2 of 5
Question 2 Project process

(a) Your project required you to work with one of the given templates. Describe how
    your project related to the template. Include a discussion of how much inherent
    flexibility there was in the template you chose, and how you worked with that level
    of flexibility. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of flexibility versus
    constraints in the template, and how that affected what you ended up doing.

                                                                               [8 marks]

(b) Describe the concepts of inclusive design, and radical inclusion, as they pertain to
    designing and developing computer systems and apps, and doing computing
    research.
                                                                               [6 marks]

(c) Discuss how these concepts related to your own project’s design, development
    and outcomes. Include discussion and justification of any choices you made
    involving these concepts.
                                                                             [6 marks]




                                      Page 3 of 5
Question 3 Aims, outcomes, and lessons learned

(a) Compare your final project outcomes with the initial aims and objectives
    you set. To what extent were these met, and what were the reasons for
    any discrepancies?
                                                                               [8 marks]

(b) This question is about lessons learned through the project process. If you were to
    do another project of a similar size, in what ways would your approach differ from
    how you did things this time? Your answer should discuss THREE different
    aspects of the project. These may be chosen from the following list, although other
    aspects are acceptable too:

             •   Defining aims and objectives
             •   Project plan
             •   Design
             •   Methodology
             •   Project development
             •   Testing and evaluation
             •   Data analysis
             •   Writing the project report
             •   Making the video

   For each of your chosen three aspects, explain what you felt were the weaknesses
   in your current project with regard to that aspect, and how you would intend to
   improve them in the new project.
                                                                             [12 marks]




                                      Page 4 of 5
Question 4 Background material and planning your project
(a) Looking back, to what extent do you think your background reading activities in
    your project were of suitable scope and sufficiently detailed? Were there any parts
    of your background reading that did not end up being relevant to your project? Are
    there any topics that you now think you should have researched in more detail?
    Discuss each of these with justification for any claims or comments.
                                                                              [12 marks]

(b) What difficulties did you experience at the start of the project in deciding how much
    time to allocate to each task? How did you come to a decision in these cases?
    Your answer should be about your planning and decision processes at the start of
    the project rather than at later stages.

   If you did not experience any difficulties at the start of the project, explain how you
   decided how much time to allocate to each task, and reflect on whether your
   planned time allocations worked out as expected.
                                                                                   [8 marks]




                                    END OF PAPER




                                       Page 5 of 5
