                                                                            CM3070
BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE


Final Project


Release date: Thursday 21 September 2023 at 12:00 midday British Summer Time
Close date: Friday 22 September 2023 by 12:00 midday British Summer Time
Time allowed: 4 hours to submit


INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:


There are five questions in this examination paper. You should answer no more than
THREE questions. Each question carries 20 marks. The marks for each part of a
question are indicated at the end of each part in [.] brackets.


There are 60 marks available on this paper.


Do not write your name anywhere in your answers.




© University of London 2023


                                    Page 1 of 6
Question 1: Project Approach

The project you did was based on a template, that you chose from a selection of
template options. Each template allowed the possibility of a range of different
approaches to the actual project.


   a. Which template did you choose, and why?
                                                                             [4 marks]
   b. What route did you take to deliver the requirements of the project solution?
                                                                             [4 marks]
   c. Suggest one other approach you could have taken.
                                                                             [3 marks]
   d. Compare and contrast your own solution (as evidenced in your project) in
      terms of the following:

        i.    Why did you choose your way (rather than the other possible approach
              you have identiﬁed)?
                                                                           [4 marks]
        ii.   What advantages and disadvantages did your way of solving the
              problem offer, compared to the other approach?
                                                                           [5 marks]




                                     Page 2 of 6
Question 2: Evaluation and Testing

All projects require some kind of evaluation or testing, or both, in order to make sure
that what is being done is ﬁt for purpose.


   a. Describe the testing and the evaluation that you did during your project. This
      can be related to testing the code you developed, if relevant, or it can be related
      to the evaluation of the ﬁnal work that you produced, or both.
                                                                              [10 marks]

   b. There is not only one way to evaluate or test what you are producing. Describe
      some other approaches to evaluation and testing that you could have chosen to
      do during your project? Explain whether you feel these additional or alternative
      approaches could have been a better thing to do; and justify why you either feel
      your choices were better, or if not, why you did not take the alternate approach
      or approaches in your own project.
                                                                             [10 marks]




                                      Page 3 of 6
Question 3: Self Reflection
Consider what you ended up developing for your project.
   a. Describe brieﬂy what you achieved.
                                                                             [2 marks]
   b. Identify TWO parts of your work that you would put forward as the best parts of
      your project. Describe them and explain why you consider them to be the
      ﬂagship aspects of your project.
                                                                            [12 marks]
   c. What more could you have done in one other aspect (that is not one of the two
      best parts described above) of your project? Explain why you did not do this, or
      how you would go about including it if you were to develop your project further.
                                                                             [6 marks]




                                     Page 4 of 6
Question 4: Video


As part of what you were required to submit, you were asked to provide a video to
support your submission.
a. What was the primary intention of your video? For example, you could have
   decided to use the opportunity to show your solution in action; you could have
   decided to describe some of your choices; or other aspects.
                                                                          [4 marks]
b. Describe your video brieﬂy. For example, did you talk to camera; did you have a
   voice-over with a screen showing your work, etc. Explain why you made these
   choices.
                                                                          [6 marks]
c. You had a maximum video length of 5 minutes as a constraint. Was this short
   or long, in terms of what you wanted to include in the video? Explain and justify
   why your video ended up being the length it was. If you felt you would have
   wanted to make the video longer than the allowed time, explain what you ended
   up leaving out, and justify why you made the choices you did in terms of what to
   include. If you ended up with a much shorter video than was allowed, justify
   why you felt what you included was sufﬁcient to achieve what you wanted with
   respect to the intention described above.
                                                                         [10 marks]




                                  Page 5 of 6
Question 5: Development
In order to do your project, there would have been a combination of using skills and
abilities that you already had; and learning or developing new abilities, concepts, or
skills.


   a. Identify TWO things that you already were able to do, that you made use of and
      that the success of your project relied on. These could be, but are not limited to,
      particular subject areas (like knowledge of Machine Learning) and particular
      skills (for example, coding in a speciﬁc language or paradigm; or previous
      experience of managing projects). Discuss each of these in terms of what was
      needed from these existing abilities to make your project succeed, and what
      would have been necessary if you didn’t already have those abilities.
                                                                              [10 marks]


   b. Identify TWO things that you had to learn how to do, during the course of the
      project, in order to make your project succeed. These could also be subject
      areas, skills, abilities, understandings, etc. For each of these, discuss why you
      needed to develop these abilities, in terms of what was necessary for the
      success of the project, and how you went about acquiring the skills.
                                                                              [10 marks]




                                    END OF PAPER




                                      Page 6 of 6
