                                                                     CM3070

BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE

Final Project


Release date: 2 September 2024 at 12:00 midday British Summer Time
Close date: 3 September 2024 by 12:00 midday British Summer Time
Time allowed:    4 hours to submit



INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:
There are fve questions in this examination paper. You should answer no
more than THREE questions. Each question carries 20 marks. The marks for
each part of a question are indicated at the end of the part in [.] brackets.
There are 60 marks available on this paper.
Calculators are NOT permitted in this examination.
You may use ONE A4 page of previously prepared notes in this examination.
Please hold up your notes to the camera at the start of the examination.
File upload is NOT permitted in this examination.




© University of London 2024




                                 Page 1 of 6
Question 1    Project management and execution
    Refect on the planning phase of your project.

    (a) What were the primary objectives for your project that you set out to
        achieve during this planning phase?                                [5 marks]
    (b) Describe how you organised the initial stages, including any
        timelines, resources, and major tasks outlined.                    [6 marks]
    (c) Analyse the effectiveness of your initial project plan: What went well,
        and what would you improve next time? Make sure to relate your
        discussion and analysis to the initial plan you made, and include
        commentary about whether your objectives changed at all.           [9 marks]




                               Page 2 of 6
Question 2    Technical challenge and solution
    Consider the technical work of your project.

    (a) Identify—with justifcation as to this choice—what you consider to be
        the most signifcant technical challenge of your project. Describe the
        challenge and how it connects with the overall project goal or goals.
                                                                           [7 marks]
    (b) Explain the solution or approach you took to address this technical
        challenge.                                                        [7 marks]
    (c) Evaluate the effectiveness of your chosen approach to addressing
        the challenge. Include in your discussion a consideration of whether
        it met your expectations or whether you would consider an alternative
        approach in future.                                               [6 marks]




                               Page 3 of 6
Question 3     Background literature
    You will have made use of many references in doing your project. Choose
    the TWO most signifcant references that you made use of, and for each:

      • describe what the main idea / point / research contribution of the
        reference is
      • explain why it was signifcant to your project
      • discuss how it infuenced the choices you made in undertaking your
        project
      • comment on the quality and reliability of the reference.

    For each reference, you should identify it by its title and authors, to the
    best of your recall. We are not expecting exact referencing here, but
    need enough information in order to identify the reference work.         [20 marks]




                                 Page 4 of 6
Question 4     Future directions
    Consider potential future applications of your project.

    (a) What are the medium and long-term possibilities or impacts of your
        project? Support your response with justifcation for any claims you
        make here.                                                        [6 marks]
    (b) Discuss ways in which your project could be expanded or adapted by
        future students or professionals. Be as concrete as possible in this
        response, and include justifcation where appropriate.             [10 marks]
    (c) What are the main pieces of advice you would give to anyone
        interested in continuing or building upon your work? Focus on
        necessary considerations and potential pitfalls.                  [4 marks]




                                   Page 5 of 6
Question 5    Presentation
    This question is about presenting the achievements of your project.
    Imagine you are presenting your work at a public meeting or conference.
    Think about the most effective way to do this, on the basis that you would
    be present at the meeting or conference, and are using it to showcase
    your important achievements. You have a 10-minute slot assigned to you
    for your presentation, excluding any audience questions.

    (a) What parts of your project work would you include in this
        presentation? Justify why you would include them, and also address
        briefy, with justifcation, any aspects you feel would be important to
        leave out.
                                                                         [10 marks]
    (b) Design your presentation. Describe the details of the presentation,
        including the media used, and how you would present it. You should
        provide suffcient detail for someone else to be able to construct the
        basics of your presentation. Discuss any limitations of your approach.
                                                                           [10 marks]



                             END OF PAPER

.




                                Page 6 of 6
