SECTION B

Candidates should answer any THREE questions from Section B.

Question 2

Choose THREE references that you have used and/or consulted in your Report.
One should be of high quality, one should be of medium quality and another should be
less reliable.

For each, explain why you consider it a high/medium/lower quality reference. How
reliable is that reference? Explain your reasoning.

                                                                               [20]


Question 3

Choose THREE significant moments/time periods from the course of your Project.
They can be positive discoveries or negative setbacks.

Describe what happened in each incident and explain how you overcame the challenges
or took advantages of the opportunities presented.

                                                                               [20]

Question 4

Evaluate your final project process and strategy.
          a. Choose TWO aspects that you think were good about your project
             implementation. Describe what they are and explain your choice.
         b. Choose TWO aspects that you think required improvements. Describe what
             they are and explain your choice.
          c. If you could have improved TWO aspects of your project, what would they be?
             Describe what these improvements would be and explain how you go
             about ensuring that they happened.

                                                                               [20]
Question 5

You have no doubt had to teach yourself much during the course of this Project.
  a. What pre-existing knowledge did you have before this project? Did this affect
      the relevant Project you chose to follow?
  b. What new subject areas did you have to engage with to complete this project?
  c. Explain how you went about acquiring the new skills and knowledge required to
      complete this project.
                                                                                [20]

UL22/0110                            Page 3 of 4
Question 6
Each project template was written to allow a number of different approaches to be
taken to the initial project.
Compare and contrast your solution (as evidenced in your project) with TWO
other routes that you could have taken.

                a. Why did you choose your way?
                b. What advantages (and disadvantages) did your way of solving the
                   problem offer compared to these other two approaches?
                c. What research did you do?


                                                                                [20]




                                     END OF PAPER




UL22/0110                            Page 4 of 4
