                                                                              CM3070 ZB
BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE


Final Project


Release date: Monday 16 March 2026 at 08:00 UK Time

Close date: Monday 16 March 2026 by 12:00 UK Time

Time allowed: 4 hours

INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

There are FOUR questions in the examination paper.

Question 1 is COMPULSORY. If you do not answer Question 1, you will get a mark
of zero for the entire examination.

You should answer ALL THREE questions from Question 2 to Question 4. Each
question carries 20 marks.

The marks for each part of a question are indicated at the end of the part in [.]
brackets.

There are 60 marks available on this paper.

Calculators are NOT permitted in this examination.

You may use ONE A4 page of previously prepared notes in this examination. Please
hold up your notes to the camera at the start of the examination.

File upload is NOT permitted in this examination.
                                                       This is not allowed
                                                           from 2026



© University of London 2026


                                       Page 1 of 5
Question 1

This question is COMPULSORY, though it carries no marks. If you do not answer this
question, you will get a mark of zero for your entire exam.

(a) What was the title of your project?

(b) Which template was your project based on?

(c) Briefly describe what your project was about.




                                          Page 2 of 5
Question 2

(a) What is the main difference between the proposal for a project (whether as a video
    pitch or a written document) and the final report (again, whether considering the
    written document or the video aspect of this). Using your own project, give
    examples to illustrate this difference. Also comment on how your proposal related
    to your final report.
                                                                                [5 marks]

(b) The consideration of ethics is an important part of a design and development
    project. What are the most important ethical aspects to consider in software design
    and development? Which specific ethical considerations did you take into account
    in your project? Are there other ethical considerations you could or should have
    taken into account that you decided not to? Explain why.
                                                                               [7 marks]

(c) Explain the importance of doing background reading and a literature survey in a
    Computer Science project. Describe the most challenging aspect you faced when
    writing your literature survey, and how you overcame this.
                                                                             [4 marks]

(d) Discuss ONE ethical consideration in selecting and reporting background material,
    and explain your approach to addressing this consideration in your own project.

                                                                               [4 marks]




                                      Page 3 of 5
Question 3

(a) Consider the following case study:

   Imagine that your project is the development of a learning analytics algorithm to detect students at
   risk of failure.

   Your evaluation consists of asking reviewers to take a set of inputs to the algorithm and their
   corresponding outputs, and answering the following sets of questions.

   Set 1 consists of the following questions:
       • Does the output help me understand which students are at risk?
       • Would this output help a teacher support students better?
       • Would this output help you improve your WP student retention?


   Set 2 consists of the following questions:
       • Do you think student A is in need of additional support?
       • Do you think student B is in need of additional support?
       • Do you think student C is in need of additional support?

   Critically discuss the tasks presented, and the questions asked, in the context of
   the evaluation approach that is being taken. Include suggestions for additional or
   different approaches to the evaluation.
                                                                             [10 marks]

(b) Imagine you are required to give an in-person presentation, of 20 minutes, to
    discuss the most significant aspects of your project. Outline, with concrete detail,
    what this presentation would consist of, and which parts of the project you would
    highlight. Justify your choices of what you would include. Also comment on what
    aspects would be most challenging to present.
                                                                                [6 marks]

(c) Based on the significant aspects of your project identified in part (b) of this
    question, suggest further work – with justification of why – that another student
    might do, to continue or further advance the outcome in some way. Be as explicit
    as possible.
                                                                                   [4 marks]




                                            Page 4 of 5
Question 4

(a) Explain what makes a project a Computer Science project rather than an IT
    deployment. Discuss, with justification, where your project fits within this range,
    and what implications this has for future work on the same project.
                                                                                   [4 marks]

(b) In terms of inclusive design, explain the core similarities and differences between
    the radical inclusion approach and the born-accessible approach to inclusive
    software design. Include examples to illustrate the distinctions.
                                                                                 [4 marks]

(c) Identify ONE significant theoretical construct used in your project and explain its
    role in the project. Discuss why the construct was significant, and whether it was
    the best or the only option you could have chosen. If it was the best or only option,
    describe why this was the case; and if it wasn’t, then discuss what other options
    were available and why you did not choose them.
                                                                                [5 marks]

(d) Describe ONE algorithm or method you used in the app, program, or system that
    you designed and developed, and explain your choice process, justifying the
    decisions you made about using that algorithm or method.
                                                                             [3 marks]

(e) Reproducibility refers to the extent to which an algorithm, method, or tool can
    produce the same result when used again under the same, or similar, conditions.
    Discuss how this concept applies to the algorithm or method you described in Part
    (d) above.
                                                                                 [4 marks]



                                    END OF PAPER




                                       Page 5 of 5
