                                                                                  CM3070
BSc EXAMINATION

COMPUTER SCIENCE


Final Project


Release date: Wednesday 9 March 2022 at 12:00 midday Greenwich Mean Time

Submission date: Thursday 10 March 2022 by 12:00 midday Greenwich Mean Time

Time allowed: 24 hours to submit


INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES:

This ass essment paper is an online assessment to be completed within the 24-
hour window. Candidates must answer THREE out of the FIVE questions. The
maximum mark is 60.

You must submit your answers        before the deadline or within 4 hours of starting,
whichever occurs first.

Calculators are not permitted in this examination. Credit will only be given if all workings
are shown.


You should complete this paper and submit your answers as one document if
possible, in Microsoft Word or PDF to the appropriate area on the VLE. Each file
uploaded must be accompanied by a coversheet containing your candidate
number. In addition, your answers must have your candidate number written clearly
at the top of the page before you upload your work. Do not write your name anywhere in
your answers.




© University of London 2022
UL22/0110
                                      Page 1 of 3
Candidates should answer any THREE questions.



Question 1

Choose THREE references t hat you have used and/or cons ult ed in your
Report. One should be of high quality, one should be of medium quality and another
should be
less relia ble.

For each, explain why you consider it a high/medium/lower quality reference.
How reliable is that reference? Explain your reasoning.
                                                                      [20]


Question 2

Choose THREE significant moments/time periods from the course of your Project.
They can be positive discoveries or negative setbacks.

Describe what happened in each incident and explain how you overcame the challenges
or took advantages of the opportunities presented.
                                                                              [20]


Question 3

Evaluate your final project process and strategy.
  a. Choose TWO aspects that yo u think we re goo d abo ut your proje ct
     implementation. Describe what they are and explain your choice.
  b. Choose TWO aspects tha t yo u think require d improvement s. Describ e wha t
     they are and explain your choice.
  c. If you could have improved TWO aspect s of your project, what w ould they
     be?Describe what these improvements would be and explain how you go
     about ensuring that they happened.
                                                                             [20]

Question 4

You have no doubt had to teach yourself much during the course of this Project.
  a. What pre-existing knowledge did you have before this project? Did this
     affect the relevant Project you chose to follow?
  b. What new subject areas did you have to engage with to complete this project?
  c. Explain how you went about acquiring the new skills and knowledge required to
     complete this project.
                                                                              [20]

UL22/0110                             Page 2 of 3
Question 5
Each project template was written to allow a number of different approaches to be
taken to the initial project.
Compare and contrast your solution (as evidenced in your project) with TWO
other routes that you could have taken.
    a. Why did you choose your way?
    b. What advantages (and disadvantages) did your way of solving the
       problem offer compared to these other two approaches?
    c. What research did you do?
                                                                                    [20]



                                     END OF PAPER




UL22/0110                            Page 3 of 3
